Comparison of Data and Object Model
-----------------------------------

Identity
--------
Data Model - Primary Key
Object Model - equals()/Equal Operator to compare memory address

Associations
------------
Data Model - Foreign Keys
Object Model - Object References

Association Navigation
----------------------
Data Model - joins
Object Model - Accessors/References

Inheritance
-----------
Data Model - Not available
Object Model - Available

Challenges with JDBC
--------------------

1) Error Handling
2) Key Management
3) Implementation varies as database varies
4) Potential for errors - building the SQL queries
5) Verbose Code

There are 2 ways to annotate in JPA - Field and Property (getter method)
Field - annotated above the field
property - annotated above the getter method

When to use
-----------
Property - If the method has any business logic / validation then every time hibernate invokes the method the logic inside gets invoked.
Field - breaking encapsulation as Hibernate will access the fields that are marked as private.

There are 2 types of TYPEs




Entity Type and Value Type

Value Type further has 3 categories

1) Basic
2) Composite
3) Collection

Entity Type - are those that correspond to a database ROW and have @Id annotation. These have a database identity.

Value Type - no database Identity. No @Id annotation. They are composed with in an Entity Type. Cannot persist by itself but as part of an Entity 

	Basic Type - Correspond to one Column in a relational Database. Ex - String - first_name, last_name , Long - userId. Ex- DummyUser Class
	Composite Type - These are Types that are aggregated meaning contain other fields in them. These have no own life cycle.
		These Objects that are a collection of basic/composite/collection types. They cannot exist without an Entity Type. EX - Address Object in the Bank Class
		We cannot form relationship to it outside of Entity Class.
	Collection - Can Hold other value Types - either collection of basic types OR entity Types. Collection itself is a Value Type irrespective of what it contains



Composite Value Type - Use the below table to better Understand. Also refer to the Object DummyUser entity for Java Mappings
--------------------


Database Table Structure for USER table 
|-------------------------------------------------------|
| USER [Table Name]       								|
|-------------------------------------------------------|
|USER_ID [Primary Key]									|
|FIRST_NAME												|
|LAST_NAME												|
|REFERRED_BY_USER_ID [foreign Key to the same table]	|
|ADDRESS_LINE_1											|
|ADDRESS_LINE_2											|
|CITY													|
|STATE													|
|ZIP													|
|-------------------------------------------------------|

It is group of a bunch of fields/columns grouped together as an Object 
Called Embedded in JPA and Composite Type in Hibernate
Does not have an @Id annotation or a table of its own
Only persisted or Queries in the context of the entity Class that contains this Composite Value Type.
Data is embedded into the Source Object table.
Ex - Address class from DummyUser Entity.

Collection Value Type - Refer to bank and bank_contact tables - Java Objects refer to Bank Java Object
---------------------

Can define a collection of basic / Composite value Types.
Once we have Collection Value Type then they need to have their own table.
They have no lifecycle of their own they depend on their parent Entity life cycle.
These cannot be queried, persisted, merged independent of their parent Object
These do not have a unique identity


Entity Association
------------------
Ex - Account table and Transaction Table. Transaction table has ACCOUNT_ID as the foreign key constraint to ACCOUNT table ACCOUNT_ID primary key column.
Entity - One Object mapped to a single class that has its own identity [primary Key] with in the database and it has its own lifecycle.

Entity Association - Reference from One entity to Another. Supported by underlying data model or tables that support the relationship.

Source Object/ Target Object - Any Object/table that holds the foreign key is the Source Object - Ex - Transaction. Entity whose primary key is the foreign key in another table becomes
the Target Object Ex - Account.
Account is the field type with in the Transaction Type.

BiDirectional and UniDirectional.
---------------------------------
UniDirectional
--------------
Inside Transaction Object - private Account account;
BUT Account Object has no variable for holding list of transactions.
If Source Object [Transaction in this case] has Target Object [Account Object] BUT Target Object does not have Source Object then it is UniDirectional
Ex - Transaction Object has Account Object BUT Account Object does not have List of Transactions. Account could not reach back and grab all the transactions. 
Account having List of Transactions is optional.


BiDirectional
-------------
Inside Transaction Object - private Account account;
Inside Account Object - private List<Transaction> transactions;
We can skip Account having transactions. It is useful only if we refer to all the transactions of an account.

Types of Entity Associations
----------------------------
OneToOne - One User can have one set of Credential
OneToMany - One Account can have Multiple Transactions
ManyToOne - Many Transactions can have one Account
ManyToMany - Many users can be associated with many Accounts. Husband and Wife could be operating multiple accounts.

Getting a big stack trace of PDT error with the latest mysql connector. So downgrade the version to 5.1.39 to resolve this issue.

OneToOne - Bidirectional relationship.
--------------------------------------
Never add @JoinColumn and @cascade on the non-owning entity. An entity that does not contain a foreign key But Primary Key is the non-owning entity.
@JoinColumn and @cascade are added only on the Source Object. Ex - User and Credential.
Credential is the Owning / Source Object. @JoinColumn and @Cascade are added on the Credential Entity.
User is the Non-Owning/target Object as it has no foreign key. @JoinColumn and @Cascade are not added on non-owning entity as it leads to circle of persisting each other. 


When using bi-directional relationship we need to manage both sides of relationship meaning we need to set Objects on both the Objects.
credential.setUser (User) and user.setCredential (Credential).

In case of UniDirectional OneToOne all the JPA annotations @JoinColumn and @cascade are available only on the Source Entity - Credential.
private Credential credential; is not available on the User Object, hence @OneToOne (mappedBy="user") is also not available. 

ManyToOne - OneToMany
---------------------
In case of OneToMany Unidirectional - private Account account; is not available on the Transaction Entity, hence @JoinColumn (name="ACCOUNT_ID")  is added on the Account Object.

When using bi-directional relationship we need to manage both sides of relationship meaning we need to set Objects on both the Objects.
Account.setTransactions (List<Transaction>) and Transaction.setAccount (account).


@JoinTable
----------
Join/Junction/Intersection table is created NOT ONLY for many to many relationships But also for a ONE-MANY relationship as below.
Budget to Transaction is ONE-MANY relationship.
Ex - Transaction, Budget and Budget_transaction tables. Not all Transactions have a budget Id associated with them in that case having budget_Id in the transaction table is not the right choice
For a scenario like this we create the Join table - budget_transaction so that only those transactions that are associated with budget_id are added to this table.

We can add @JoinTable on either side of the relationship but having it on the Budget table makes more sense as it follows the teacher.

@JoinTable - In the case of OneToMany relationship, Owning entity is the entity with the @JoinTable Annotation. In this case Budget Entity is the owning entity as it has @JoinTable Annotation.
You can choose which side will have @JoinTable Annotation.

CAREFUL - when you add cascade.ALL on all the entities be very careful when you add those objects for persisting.
Ex - Transaction has cascade.ALL on "account" and Account has cascade.ALL on "transactions" so when saving Account/Transaction add either Account on Transaction OR Transaction on Account.
Another example is commented - [beltPurchase.setBudget(budget);] because if this comment is removed while saving the budget Object there is cyclic dependency error.

ManyToMany - 
-----------
When we model ManyToMany UniDirectional flow we can pick any side as the owning side. Teacher picked "Account" as the owning side.
Ex - Account, User, user_account


HibernateAPI
------------
There are 3 major pillars of hibernate - hibernate configuration, mapping metadata on our entities, invoking persistence operations.

Different states of an Entity - Transient [New], Detached, Persistent, Removed.
2 states - persistent and removed are inside the Persistence Context. refer to the gliffy pic - Entity_Lifecycle.jpg


Transient - created using new Operator and a constructor. Object has no database Identity at this point. Its not associated with a row. There is no Primary key assigned to it.
If we were to run garbage collection then this object would be removed and not stored anywhere in any secondary collection.

Persistent - An entity that has a primary key associated with it. It is associated with database row. We can perform all sorts of manipulation on the entity. 
Manipulation means setting different fields will be tracked and its state can then be sent to database and saved. Entity enters into the persistent Context. 
There ways of putting an Object in the Persistent State
1) Save a transient Object and make it persistent.
2) Fetch an Object from database. It will be considered persistent.
3) Refer to a transient Object from another persistent Object. Add a transient Object to a collection inside an Object that's in the persistent state.

Removed - Object scheduled to be deleted. When we want to remove an entity from persistent context. When Persistent Context syncs up with the database this entity gets deleted.

Detached - Object is in the persistent context BUT that persistent context is closed. We still have a reference to this Object.	

Persistent Context  -
-------------------

1) Provides With a cache of all the persistent entity instances.
2) When we put Entities into Persistence State all the changes made to those entities are held within the persistence Context.
3) Persistence Context are usually created with a session Object.

SessionFactory factory = HibernateUtil.getSessionFactory ();
Session session = factory.openSession (); //New Persistence Context is created.

//Perform different operations on the entities

session.close ();
factory.shutdown ();

Whenever we perform openSession () a new Persistence Context is created.

We create a new Object using new Operator and Constructor. Object is in the transient state. Now through session.save() when we persist this Object, Object gets associated with primary key 
and moves into the Persistent state. Even if we fetch some Objects from database through session those Objects gets placed in the persistent Context. Any changes made to these Objects are
tracked by the Persistent Context and it is able to synchronize the Object Model with the Database Model.

Our Persistence Manager is the Session Object. Session manipulates the persistence Context and the entities stored within it.

For different States and Actions and state changes refer to the draw.io file - entity_state_action.xml

Retrieving Entities 
-------------------
There are 2 ways to retrieve entities from hibernate - get() and load ()

in case of get() first hibernate looks into its persistence context cache, if the entity is already available then returns the entity from cache.
in case of load (), hibernate first returns a proxy and defers the actual database call until some data on the proxy is accessed.

Run populate.sql from db/ folder to truncate all the data from all the tables.

When working with entities that do not exist - get() + accessing any method on the entity - will throw nullPointerException
When working with entities that do not exist - load() + accessing any method on the entity - will throw ObjectNotFoundException because of the proxy issue.

Modifying an Entity
--------------------
after an entity is retrieved from Database meaning an entity when goes into Persistence Context we can make necessary changes Persistence Context will keep track of these changes.
When transaction is commited Persistence Context syncs the changes made to Object Model to Database Model. It is important that these changes are made inside of a transaction.

Re-Attaching an Entity 
----------------------
Re-Attach an entity using update() method

saveOrUpdate
------------
This does both re-attach an entity to the persistence Context and also persist the entity into the database.

flush() Method
---------------
flush() is found on the session interface. When we invoke flush() what happens is, we are taking all the changes in the persistence context and sync them with underlying database.
transaction houses the connection.
when we invoke transaction.commit () - this method forces flush on the session. 

There are 3 times a flush will be called on the session  
1) call flush explicitly - session.flush ()
2) when we call transaction.commit - this method invokes session.flush()
3) when we perform a select operation if flush will occur before it

On Transaction rollback, even the updates/inserts made calling flush () are rolledback.
 
 
 JPA API
 --------
 Session is from Hibernate
 EntityManager is from JPA
 
 JPA is subset of Hibernate
 
 There are different ways to manage EntityManager - Application Managed, Container Managed. 
 Application Managed - Program in the application controls when entitymanager is created and shutdown.
 Container Managed - full blown enterprise containers like weblogic, Jboss JEE servers that manage the entitymanager.
 
 Resource Local Transaction - means application is responsible for begning the transactions and commit/rollback

 
EntityManagerFactory - SessionFactory
EntityManager - Session
EntityTransaction - Transaction

clear() and detach ()
---------------------

invoking the clear() method on the EntityManager detaches all the Entities from Persistence Context.
detach () will detach a single entity from Persistence Context.

merge()
-------
this method takes an entity and returns an entity. This method first looks for the parameter Object in the persistence Context if not found queries the database to fetch the Object.
If the Object was found in database then merges the changes made on the parameter Object with the Object fetched from Database and adds the returned Object onto persistence Context and 
on commit these changes will be persisted.
If the Object was NOT found in database or Persistence Context then treats the returned Object as transient and inserts a new record on commit.

One thing we should be careful about though is that the changes made to the returned Object is persisted as it is added to Persistence Context and not the original parameter Object.


1. Primary Key (PK) - uniquely identifies a row in a table. May use one or more columns. A single-column PK is usually also known as a Surrogate key, which is merely a PK column that uses a generated number that is unique in the table. A Primary Key can be either a single column using a surrogate (meaningless) number (a.k.a. Surrogate Key) or a column or set of columns that have meaning to the user and uniquely identify a row in a table (Natural Key). 

2. Surrogate key - while not really a type of "key", this refers to a PK that uses a single-column Primary Key of numeric data type. The "surrogate" term means the numeric value is meaningless in that no one needs to know what it is and it is auto-generated by the DBMS or API. It MUST not be used as the sole method of uniquely identifying a row in a table. The unique row must be found using the Natural Key, but Foreign Key references from other tables use the surrogate key. 

3. Natural Key (NK) - this is a column or set of columns that have meaning to the user and uniquely identify a row in the table. It could be a Social Security Number, bank account number (although that is only useful for a single bank since there is no guarantee that another bank won't use the same account number), etc. In the second example, the bank account number would have to be paired with a bank identifier if multiple banks were involved. EVERY row in a table MUST have a NK. A NK may or may not be used as a PK; if not a PK, then it may be an Alternate Key (AK). 

4. Alternate Key (AK) - There may be more than one column or set of columns that uniquely identify a row in a table and one of them should be picked as the Primary Key if a surrogate key is not used. Another set can be defined as the Alternate Key and the others must have unique indexes on them. These are all NK. 

5. Surrogate key and Natural Key are not synonymous.

Using Compound Primary Keys
---------------------------
Compound Primary Keys is using combination of 2 or more natural keys as the primary key. Ex- Current Class

Inheritance
-----------

One way is to use
@MappedSuperClass 

@Inheritance (strategy=Table_per_class) - hibernate will use UNION ALL which gets expensive when there are many rows - Investment , Stock and Bond

@Inheritance (strategy=Single_table) - hibernate will use one table with columns for both child classes. We then use @discriminator annotation to mention which column has the discriminating value


 










